=head1 NAME

B<Knitted::Bib> - A knitted bib with a camel motif

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are complete instructions for knitting a bib with the camel
motif from the Knitted::Dishcloth. The bib's construction is taken
from the bibs at Cloverlaine's blog
(L<http://downcloverlaine.blogspot.com/>). If you like this bib, but
don't care about camels, you should totally check out the many
wonderful bib designs she has there. They're all cuter than this one
(including I<two> different penguin designs, you Linux nerds)!

=begin pdf

O<Bib.jpg>

=end pdf

Gauge is not important. Using the yarn and needles listed below, I got
a bib about 7.5 inches (19 cm) wide.

=begin pdf

=ff

=end pdf

=head1 MATERIALS

=head2 YARN

Approximately 100 yards (91 m) of worsted weight cotton yarn. That's
less than one ball of Lily Sugar 'N Cream (I used colorway #18742,
Hot Blue) or similar. 

=head2 NEEDLES

One pair US #6 (4.0 mm) straight knitting needles. 

One set of US #5 (3.75 mm) double-pointed knitting needles. Actually,
you only need two needles, not the whole set. They are only used for
the I-cord. Alternatively, if you look on Elaine's blog, you'll find
instructions for doing the I-cord with a crochet hook instead.

L<http://downcloverlaine.blogspot.com/2010/05/ties-that-bind.html>

=head1 DIRECTIONS

We're going to start by knitting the rounded bottom part with short rows.

    CO 41 sts
    [k1 p1] for 28 sts, turn (13 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] for 17 sts, turn (10 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [p1, k1] for 20 sts, turn (10 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [p1, k1] for 23 sts, turn (7 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] for 26 sts, turn (7 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] for 28 sts, turn (5 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] for 30 sts, turn (5 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] for 32 sts, turn (3 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] for 34 sts, turn (3 sts unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] for 36 sts, turn (1 st unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] for 38 sts, turn (1 st unworked)
    sl1kw, [k1, p1] to end
    [k1, p1] across

Now we're going to introduce the field of stockinette on which the
camel motif will be placed, starting on the wrong side.

    Row 1 (WS): [k1, p1] for 13 sts, p15, [k1, p1] for 13 sts
    Row 2 (RS): [k1, p1] for 12 sts, k17, [p1, k1] for 12 sts
    Row 3: [k1, p1] for 11 sts, p19, [k1, p1] for 11 sts
    Row 4: [k1, p1] for 10 sts, k21, [p1, k1] for 10 sts
    Row 5: [k1, p1] for  9 sts, p23, [k1, p1] for  9 sts
    Row 6: [k1, p1] for  8 sts, k25, [p1, k1] for  8 sts
    Row 7: [k1, p1] for  7 sts, p6,k3,p18, [k1, p1] for  7 sts
    Row 8: [k1, p1] for  6 sts, k3, p3, k13, p3, k7, [p1, k1] for 6 sts

From now on we're going to start and end each row with k1,p1,k1,p1,k1,
which we'll abbreviate B5.

    Row  9: B5, p9,k2,p8,k1,p5,k2,p4, B5
    Row 10: B5, k4,p2,k4,p2,k1,p3,k3,p2,k10, B5
    Row 11: B5, p10,k2,p4,k5,p4,k2,p4, B5
    Row 12: B5, k4,p2,k4,p4,k5,p2,k10, B5
    Row 13: B5, p11,k1,p5,k4,p4,k2,p4, B5
    Row 14: B5, k4,p2,k5,p2,k6,p1,k11, B5
    Row 15: B5, p11,k2,p4,k3,p6,k1,p4, B5
    Row 16: B5, k4,p1,k5,p2,k1,p2,k3,p2,k11, B5
    Row 17: B5, p11,k2,p3,k1,p3,k1,p5,k1,p4, B5
    Row 18: B5, k4,p2,k4,p1,k3,p2,k2,p2,k11, B5
    Row 19: B5, p11,k2,p2,k2,p3,k2,p3,k2,p4, B5
    Row 20: B5, k4,p1,k4,p2,k3,p2,k2,p2,k11, B5
    Row 21: B5, p11,k2,p2,k3,p2,k2,p3,k2,p4, B5
    Row 22: B5, k4,p2,k3,p2,k2,p3,k1,p3,k11, B5
    Row 23: B5, p11,k3,p1,k4,p1,k2,p3,k2,p4, B5
    Row 24: B5, k4,p2,k3,p2,k1,p4,k1,p3,k11, B5
    Row 25: B5, p11,k3,p2,k3,p1,k2,p3,k2,p1,k1,p2, B5
    Row 26: B5, k2,p1,k1,p3,k1,p3,k1,p3,k2,p3,k11, B5
    Row 27: B5, p11,k12,p1,k3,p1,k1,p2, B5
    Row 28: B5, k2,p1,k1,p3,k1,p12,k1,p3,k7, B5
    Row 29: B5, p6,k21,p1,k1,p2, B5
    Row 30: B5, k2,p1,k1,p21,k6, B5
    Row 31: B5, p5,k22,p1,k1,p2, B5
    Row 32: B5, k2,p1,k1,p22,k5, B5
    Row 33: B5, p4,k23,p1,k1,p2, B5
    Row 34: B5, k2,p25,k4, B5
    Row 35: B5, p4,k25,p2, B5
    Row 36: B5, k3,p24,k4, B5
    Row 37: B5, p4,k24,p3, B5
    Row 38: B5, k3,p17,k1,p6,k4, B5
    Row 39: B5, p4,k6,p1,k16,p4, B5
    Row 40: B5, k4,p16,k1,p6,k4, B5
    Row 41: B5, p4,k6,p2,k14,p5, B5
    Row 42: B5, k5,p14,k1,p7,k4, B5
    Row 43: B5, p4,k7,p1,k14,p5, B5
    Row 44: B5, k6,p12,k2,p6,k5, B5
    Row 45: B5, p3,k8,p3,k11,p6, B5
    Row 46: B5, k6,p10,k4,p9,k2, B5
    Row 47: B5, p2,k9,p4,k9,p7, B5
    Row 48: B5, k7,p8,k5,p9,k2, B5
    Row 49: B5, p3,k7,p6,k8,p7, B5

And now we stop the B5 and start to move the border back in towards
the center.

    Row 50: [k1, p1] for  6 sts, k7,p6,k7,p4,k5, [p1, k1] for 6 sts
    Row 51: [k1, p1] for  7 sts, p5,k2,p9,k5,p6, [k1, p1] for  7 sts
    Row 52: [k1, p1] for  8 sts, k6,p2,k17, [p1, k1] for  8 sts
    Row 53: [k1, p1] for  9 sts, p23, [k1, p1] for  9 sts
    Row 54: [k1, p1] for 10 sts, k21, [p1, k1] for 10 sts
    Row 55: [k1, p1] for 11 sts, p19, [k1, p1] for 11 sts
    Row 56: [k1, p1] for 12 sts, k17, [p1, k1] for 12 sts
    Row 57: [k1, p1] for 13 sts, p15, [k1, p1] for 13 sts
    Rows 58-63: k1, p1 across.

Now we're done with the main part of the bib and we're going to do the
reducing for each strap one at a time. We're working on the RS and
we're going to start by knitting across (in the seed stitch pattern)
14 sts for the right-hand side, then I<binding off> 13 sts in the
middle, then knitting (in pattern) 14 sts for the left-hand side. If
you look at Elaine's instructions, at this point she slips the first
14 of these stitches onto a holder, but I just leave them on the
needle. We're going to ignore them for a little while, but they won't
really be in our way. Okay? Let's do it!

    Row 64: [k1, p1] for 14 sts, BO 13 stitches kw, [p1, k1] for 14 sts

Now if we hold the needle up and look at the RS, we have 14 sts on the
right-hand side, then a big gap where the bound off sts are, then
another 14 sts on the left-hand side, where the working yarn and the
point of the needle are.

=head2 NECK AND SHOULDER SHAPING -- LEFT SHOULDER

Working with just the 14 sts on the left-hand side...

    Row 65: [k1, p1] across
    Row 66: skp, [p1, k1] across (13 sts)
    Row 67: [k1, p1] across
    Row 68: skp, [k1, p1] across (12 sts)
    Row 69: [k1, p1] across
    Row 70: skp, [p1, k1] across (11 sts)
    Row 71: [k1, p1] across
    Row 72: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, p2tog. (10 sts)
    Row 73: [p1, k1] across
    Row 74: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, k2tog. (9 sts)
    Row 75: [k1, p1] across
    Row 76: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, p2tog. (8 sts)
    Row 77: [p1, k1] across
    Row 78: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, k2tog. (7 sts)
    Row 79: [k1, p1] across
    Row 80: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, p2tog. (6 sts)
    Row 81: [p1, k1] across
    Row 82: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, k2tog. (5 sts)
    Row 83: [k1, p1] across
    Row 84: skp, k1, k2 tog. (3 sts)

Slip these 3 sts onto a DPN and knit an I-cord for about 12
inches. Cut a generous piece (more than the length of your I-cord),
bind it off, and thread the end down through middle of the
I-cord. Weave in the end down there.

=head2 NECK AND SHOULDER SHAPING -- RIGHT SHOULDER

Working with the 14 sts that are still on the straight needle, rejoin
the working yarn.

    Row 65: [p1, k1] across
    Row 66: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, k2tog. (13 sts)
    Row 67: [k1, p1] across
    Row 68: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, p2tog. (12 sts)
    Row 69: [p1, k1] across
    Row 70: [k1, p1] to last 2 sts, k2tog. (11 sts)
    Row 71: [k1, p1] across
    Row 72: skp, [k1, p1] across (10 sts)
    Row 73: [k1, p1] across
    Row 74: skp, [p1, k1] across (9 sts)
    Row 75: [k1, p1] across
    Row 76: skp, [k1, p1] across (8 sts)
    Row 77: [k1, p1] across
    Row 78: skp, [p1, k1] across (7 sts)
    Row 79: [k1, p1] across
    Row 80: skp, [k1, p1] across (6 sts)
    Row 81: [k1, p1] across
    Row 82: skp, [p1, k1] across (5 sts)
    Row 83: [k1, p1] across
    Row 84: skp, k1, k2tog. (3 sts)

Slip these 3 sts onto a DPN and knit an I-cord for about 12
inches. Bind it off, and thread the end down through middle of the
I-cord. Weave in the end down there.

Weave in the other ends (one at the very beginning and one where we
rejoined at the right shoulder).

=head1 AUTHOR 

oylenshpeegul (either at gmail or ravelry)

=head1 COPYRIGHT 

Copyright (c) 2010 Tim Heaney. All rights reserved. This pattern is
free; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as
Perl itself.

The basic bib construction was copied from the bib designs of Elaine
Fitzpatrick, who holds the copyrights on those. Used by permission.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Knitted::Dishcloth
